[SINGING]
>> OK, when I started, I thought
maybe it would be a movie
or a website.
>> Why don't we start
even before all of that?
Start with why.
>> OK.
I started the project because
I wanted more happiness
in my life and in
my kids' lives.
But I realized I didn't even
know how to talk about it.
Sitting around
the kitchen table,
my own daughter told
me "I'm stressed out.
I want to be happy,
and I don't know how."
That was the start
of my journey.
And what I discovered is
that happiness can be taught.
[SINGING]
>> Any questions or any
argument, or any criticism,
most welcome.
>> You're going to be
transformed in this process.
As much as you want
to help other people,
this process is going
to inform your lives.
>> One of the greatest decisions
you can make in your life is
what you're going to do with it.
>> For some, it's
easier than others.
In our society,
depression is on the rise.
And teens are
especially susceptible.
But there is hope.
When I started the project, I
had heard really good things
about this teacher
named Ward Mailliard
at a small private school up in
the mountains near Santa Cruz.
>> So Randy came to
sit in on a class.
And it was just a
normal day for us.
>> But what I saw coming from
the kids and the interaction
between him and his
students just blew me away.
The quality of creative
thought, of self reflection,
It was exactly what
I was looking for.
I connected Ward with some other
unique teachers I had heard of,
a young principal
in Nigeria named
Emmanuel and a
first-grade teacher
named Yeshi at a school for
Tibetan exiles living in India.
The kids started talking
with each other by email
and sending videos and really
getting to know one another.
And I thought, what if we
could put our heads together
to make something that
we could then share
with other kids, other schools?
And what if we could get
kids talking together
about real ways to have more
happiness in their lives?
>> An individual requires an
opportunity or an experience
to understand their potential.
And I think this was an
experience for all of us.
>> We try to take advantage
of the human situation,
because we know that
everybody wants to be happy.
Everybody needs compassion.
Everybody wants to be loved.
Things that are very, very
fundamental to human beings,
inescapable.
We can't run away from them.
>> People have always
told me to be special,
and I find it weird that I
don't feel special at all.
More happiness.
>> I really don't
know where I was born,
but I was born in
India, for sure.
But I have no idea,
because I'm an orphan, so.
>> Ever since I was little,
I've moved around from school
to school.
I guess I don't really allow
myself to become attached
to any place or look at
it as the only place I'm
going to stay, because, I
mean, nothing is forever.
>> I'll be happy at some point.
>> I hope it'll have
an impact on me,
because everyone really
wants to be happier.
>> Happiness can be elusive.
With an increase in depression
comes an increase in suicides.
>> It's really stressful,
trying to keep myself as myself.
I really don't know
what to do about it.
I was six when my mom died.
She came home from the
hospital with my little sister.
And I remember her complaining
about her back hurting
and her head hurting.
And then I came
home from school,
and the ambulances
were out front.
It's kind of a nice
story to think about,
like the whole "you'll
see them again in heaven"
and stuff like that,
but I don't know.
>> My father has been in the
hospital for quite a while.
He had a seizure
in June, and he was
in the hospital for
pancreatitis and died from that.
And unfortunately I have
no control over that,
but I have to deal with it.
>> I just didn't
want to be who I was.
And I definitely tried really
hard to be somebody else,
and it just didn't work for me.
And then my past started
haunting me like no--
And then I just didn't
know what else to do,
and I started cutting myself.
And I think I have
this personality,
that if I start something,
I get really addicted to it.
I would do 20 cuts
everywhere, each day.
And I think I took some
rat something, ant killing
poisoning thing, something.
And my social worker was like,
"Wow, you're not going home.
You're going to a
mental hospital."
And then I was like, "Wow."
>> I'm a child of
divorced parents,
and I recently decided
to live with my father.
>> Oh, you just took my box.
>> [INAUDIBLE].
Watch me cry.
>> It's a really
hard thing for me,
being able to feel
vulnerable around my dad.
>> I never felt that he would be
able to accept me if I gave up,
and I want to be able to feel
that he'll always love me.
So, I mean, if this
can teach me anything,
hopefully it's to be able
to talk to my father.
>> So how do we
get some answers?
We wanted to bring some other
voices into the project,
so we were looking for people
that the kids connected with.
Luke had just written an
essay comparing the Jedi code
with the principles
of the Dalai Lama.
And we were really fortunate
to be able to sit down
with George Lucas.
>> Oh, my god.
We're going to see George Lucas.
We're going to see one
of my idols, someone
that I watch on the
"Star Wars" VHS and beta.
Do you want the lightsaber?
Do you want me to?
This guy created some of
my favorite characters.
This guy created my imagination.
I was a kid who grew
up on "Star Wars."
>> I guess this is the hot seat.
[LAUGHTER]
How are you?
>> Good.
>> Hey, George.
What's going on?
It's me, Luke.
Hi, I'm Luke.
And--
[LAUGHTER]
I was just wondering, how did
you put your own spirituality
into your films?
And even, did you put
your own spirituality,
or is it just something
that came to you creatively?
>> Well, creatively, or
spiritually, or intellectually,
you are your work, which is,
it's very hard to separate
the artist from what he does,
no matter who it is or what
they're doing.
Because the creativity is so
interconnected with your inner
being that it reflects
you as a person.
So if you want to know a
person, a filmmaker, or any kind
of artist, really, but
especially a filmmaker,
you can understand
a lot about them
just by looking at their
work, and you can understand
what kind of a person they are.
>> Hi, I'm Madeline.
>> Hi.
>> What do you think are the
things which most contribute
to long term happiness?
>> Well, happiness is the result
of a combination of pleasure
and joy.
Short term happiness, which
is pleasure, is self-centered.
It's all about
getting something.
And so by its very
nature, short termed.
And it's by its very
nature, it's additive.
Which means that if
you do something once,
say you buy a car, the first
car you buy is fantastic.
It's an amazing experience.
You get this thing.
The second time you buy a
car, it's not so amazing.
So you have to buy a
bigger, fancier car in order
to get the same experience as
when you bought your first car.
And it just keeps going down
until you have six yachts, 12
airplanes, and 50 cars.
And even then, that
experience with those
will not equal the first
experience you had,
but joy is different.
Joy really has to do with
taking care of other people
and doing things for others
rather than for yourself.
It's an interesting
reality of why
we're here, that one of
the greatest pleasures
is making kids.
One of the greatest joys, or the
greatest joy, is raising kids.
And kids-- kids, I say children.
But children teach
you compassion.
They come out.
They're half an hour
old, and they're
already wiser than you are.
And what they know
how to teach you
is how to have
unconditional love, how
to be completely absorbed
with another human being
and devoted to that human being.
And the joy you get from
them, and if you say,
"Gee, if I treated
everybody the way
I treat my little
six week old baby,
then I would have a lot of joy."
And you don't have to babies to
do it, but that's the hard way.
The easy way is to have kids.
Because you don't have a
choice You have to love them,
because they're very cute.
Until they turn into teenagers,
and then this other miracle
happens, where when they're
ready to leave and say
"I'm out of here.
I want to be
independent," they get
all gawky, and pimply, and ugly,
and they're not cute anymore,
so the parents are just as
willing to say, "OK, go off,
have your life."
But that's a true miracle.
I hope that answered something.
[LAUGHTER]
>> We wanted to get a
scientific take on happiness,
so Luke and Nina went to
Seattle to talk to Dr.
Richard Davidson, one
of the world's leading
neuroscientists.
>> And speed and Luke, 1, 2, 3.
>> What's your definition
of lasting happiness?
Or not definition, what's your--
what brings you
lasting happiness?
>> Well, what brings me lasting
happiness is to do the work
I'm doing and have
it help others.
From very early on,
I had the conviction
that the mind is
something that is really
important to our well-being
and our happiness,
and that if we can all improve
our minds in certain ways,
our well-being would
improve, and the world
can really be a better place.
So I very quickly got involved
in neuroplasticity research.
Neuroplasticity
is a word that we
use to describe the
fact that the brain can
change in response to experience
and in response to training.
This is really a new discovery.
We even have learned that
we grow new brain cells.
That's one of the mechanisms
of neuroplasticity.
We once thought
that the brain was
different than any other
organ in the body, in that it
didn't grow new brain cells.
But we now know that that's
just totally wrong, that we
do grow new brain cells.
An average adult grows about
5,000 new cells every day.
And that provides the
scientific underpinnings
for understanding
how training our mind
can actually produce
enduring changes.
>> If you could just pick us
all up and shake us and say
something to us to make us
happier and make us less
depressed, what would it be.
>> I would say that to
appreciate the fact that all
of us, and youth in particular,
are in a constant state of flux
and change, and that gives
you radical possibilities
for growth and development.
Kids often get stuck in
patterns of self identification,
where they're identifying
with a particular subgroup.
They have a clique of friends
that they're hanging out with.
They listen to a
certain kind of music.
That's their identity.
And it's very
difficult to see change
when you're in the middle of it.
So who you think you are
at this point in time
is not necessarily who you're
going to be in the next moment.
>> As a producer, I've done
some films with the Dalai Lama
Foundation, and I thought, why
not try to have the students
and their teachers discuss
happiness with the Dalai Lama
himself?
I think his message reaches
across all kinds of boundaries.
And that really gave us
a good place to start.
We asked for the
interview, and he said yes.
>> The product is
the journey here.
By us engaging and making a
commitment without any sense
that anything is going
to come back from it.
And my hope is to
go on the journey
and to see how we're
changed by the journey.
>> I'm looking forward to it.
[SINGING]
>> The second group of kids we
were taking to visit the Dalai
Lama were Emmanuel's
students from Nigeria.
[SINGING]
>> The students here in Nigeria
on this project have been
making contributions about the
understanding of happiness,
what makes them happy and
what makes them not happy.
>> Happiness, in my own opinion,
can be defined as a state
of being glad or happy, or it's
an inner expression of a good
feeling.
>> Whenever I help someone and
I make them feel they are human,
it makes me happy.
And whenever I succeed
in whatever I'm doing,
it also makes me happy.
>> There's one thing that I
know I'm not really happy about.
Like here in Nigeria, we have
so many people suffering.
If they don't go to school,
to join up with armed robbery,
corruption, so many things.
Because there's nobody
to take care of them.
But I'm praying to God if
you can just make me great,
I'll try my best to meet
people's needs, too.
Yeah.
>> Everybody in the
world, wherever you are,
we are talking
about universality,
whether you are in the
US, you are in Nigeria,
you are in Ghana, Jamaica,
and whether you are black,
or white, or green, or blue, no
matter the kind of human being
you are, we naturally
want to be happy.
>> What makes me happy is when I
see I performed well in school.
>> Some girls, they are
working on the street.
They don't have anybody
to pay their school fees,
but I'm happy that
me, I'm in school.
>> Just being with my friends
and then telling jokes
to others.
>> When there is singing,
I feel very happy.
>> When you look into
your life tomorrow,
what do you see exactly
that makes you so happy?
>> Doctor.
>> Oh, you want to be a doctor?
>> Every human being is still
in the process of becoming.
There is no human
being who is Perfect
the problem is that our
pursuit of happiness
is actually based on what
we understand by happiness.
And most of the time, our
understanding is limited.
And because it is limited, we
search for happiness wrongly.
General happiness is
lasting, and unchangeable,
and originates from within us.
>> Patience,
compassion, empathy.
And without happiness,
you can't have patience,
because when you're not happy,
anybody that offends you,
you will definitely
offend that person back.
So without happiness,
you can't have patience.
>> Happiness is love.
Happiness is compassion.
And happiness is peace.
Because like just a
family, when there
is no happiness in the family,
there will not be peace.
They don't understand
each other,
and they don't have
compassion between themselves.
>> So when you want to be happy,
based on our own definition,
you have to show love.
If you show
compassion, you are not
happy to see other
people suffer.
When you see people in
need, you help them.
And love is directed
towards fellow human beings.
Have you ever been sad?
>> Yes.
>> So what made you sad?
That is one.
And how did you feel
when you were sad?
>> The day I lost my dad.
I was very sad, and
I feel like joining
him, feel like killing myself.
>> We share the same experience.
In a way, the pain of losing
a dad is not just a dad.
Remember that.
We are all connected.
The death of any human
being affects us.
You remember the
poem by John Donne?
He says "Everyone's
death diminishes me,
because no man is an island.
We are part of the whole."
>> The third group of students
participating were from
the Tibetan Children's Village,
located in the town where
the Dalai Lama now lives.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Most of my students,
they're from Tibet.
But when I joined TCV, I
was not at all a Tibetan.
Right from childhood, I
stayed among the Indians.
I never had Tibetans
as my friends,
so I could not speak in
my language fluently.
Most of the time, I
conversed with my parents
in English, or
sometimes in Nepali.
>> Ask me some questions.
>> Do you have any message
to the California students?
>> I just want to tell them to
stop visiting McDonald's quite
often.
Most of my students
say, "Ma'am, I
haven't met my parents for the
past 15 years or 20 years."
And first of all,
when I heard them
say that, I thought they were
exaggerating, because I was
thinking, how can they not meet
their parents for the past 15
years or 20 years?
But the closer I got
to the community,
the more I started knowing
about the hardships they undergo
when they come to India.
There are no legal permissions.
That's why the escape.
They've crossed such
dangerous places
that probably we in our wildest
dreams would never think of.
It's so funny.
Right now, they look so happy,
and when you watch them,
you can never imagine
that they've gone
through this in their life.
I cannot walk a mile,
and I think, "OK,
maybe I should hire a cab."
But these boys and
these young girls
have walked for days and months.
It's not easy to
be in their shoes.
>> With the trip to India and
the interview with the Dalai
Lama getting closer, we wanted
to talk to someone who had
already met him.
So Nina and John
Murray flew to New York
to talk with Richard Gere.
>> Hi, I'm John.
Nice to meet you.
>> Hi, John.
>> I'm Nina.
>> Nina, how are you?
>> Nice to meet you.
>> Tony, how are you?
>> Tony, I know you exist, too.
The camera's actually
a human being.
>> So if I could ask
you a quick question.
>> Yeah, go ahead.
>> We're asking people what
their definition of happiness
is, in terms of what brings
you happiness in your life?
>> Now's my moment?
>> Yeah.
>> Well, happiness, in
Buddhism, is a truism,
which is fundamental whether
you're a Buddhist or not,
but it is that we all move
towards happiness and away from
suffering.
>> Yeah.
>> Always.
And however we define
happiness, that's
what we're always
moving towards.
And however we define suffering,
we're moving away from that.
But we can understand everyone.
Our enemies, our
friends, everyone
by looking at their actions
from that point of view.
>> But what about when you're
unhappy and when you're faced
with these challenges or the
suffering that you're trying
to escape?
>> Well, the reason that I
got involved with Buddhism is,
I was so unhappy.
And I saw everyone around
me being incredibly unhappy.
I said, "What is this about?
Are we stuck with this?"
And I didn't want
to accept that,
so I started looking around
for systems that would
give alternate possibilities.
And Buddhism was the
one that touched me.
Someone like the Dalai Lama, who
you'll meet, has been tested,
I mean, the life of His
Holiness is so extraordinary.
The testing is going
on, emotional testing,
psychological testing, physical
testing, that is going on,
it goes on constantly.
>> What are these tests
that you're speaking of?
>> Well, physical tests
like His Holiness?
>> Yeah.
>> His Holiness had everything
taken away from him.
As a small baby, his
family was taken away
and his country was taking away.
>> Yeah, I know his story, but
how are you testing yourself,
or how would we be
testing ourselves?
>> I don't know your
personal history,
but I'm sure you've had
some suffering in your life.
>> Yeah.
>> Whether it's operatic, huge,
or it's small and private.
But these are
tests to all of us.
And these are deep
challenges for all of us,
that are impediments to
our hearts opening up,
to feeling empathic.
If you can take that one time
that you were really hungry
for whatever reason, and then
multiply that by a million,
and think about all
the starving people,
that one time that
someone, I don't know,
a girl grabbed your hair and
pulled it and knocked you
down or whatever,
and then imagine
the millions of people
who are tortured every day
and identify with them.
And these are challenges
to the reality
of the world we live in.
And a challenge to
what we do about it.
You're going to be
transformed in this process.
As much as you want
to help other people,
this process is going
to inform your lives.
>> We arrived in Delhi, and the
first thing we did on the very
first day is, we went
out to Kingsway Camp.
And this is a place that was
established by Gandhi, where
Gandhi used to stay in the very
early days of the independence
movement.
And he created this
place for the Harijans.
And they're the
poorest of the poor.
They're the scavenger caste.
And these kids, what they had
to offer us was their prayers.
And they sang these
Sanskrit prayers.
[SINGING]
>> They were all just
so happy to see us,
and it reminded me of
me being one of them,
standing in a
straight line waiting,
when some other foreigner came
in, the big smile that came
on my face.
It used to be me.
>> We left Delhi
for the orphanage,
at the Sri Ram ashram, which is
Mount Madonna's sister school
in India.
Both were founded by
students of Baba Hari
Dass, who is a silent monk.
Actually, the kids
know him as Baba-ji.
For Prabha, this is
where she grew up.
So this was a
homecoming for her.
>> Baba-ji is my dad, kind of.
He is my dad.
So when Baba-ji was a kid,
he went to an orphanage,
and he saw that the kids
weren't treated right.
And he was very sad, so
he made a promise that he
would open an orphanage.
And I was the fourth kid.
When a new kid comes, we
don't say "Oh, my god.
There's another one."
We just take him right in, and
that just fills up more love.
There's more help.
Like if the kid needs
help, we're there.
We've never seen family,
so this is our family.
I have no other
definition of a family.
Just being here, I can feel
the love coming my way.
We went to Har Ki
Pauri and I bet
there were more than
2,000 people there.
And just for that 15 minutes,
that amount of people come.
And it is spiritual.
In India, every festival
is celebrated with family
and a whole community.
And I don't know, and that
brings you more close.
>> There is just like hundreds,
just like thousands of people
just chilling.
And it was just really
surprising to think
that they do this every night.
>> These people have
barely anything,
yet they are happier than most
people that have absolutely
everything.
To me, this is true happiness.
These kids have true happiness.
Running around, playing,
being who they are,
this is like paradise.
>> I hated everybody before.
I hated life.
And I just hated the fact
that people would smile.
I just hated laughing.
And I would just sit in my
room, and I would never smile,
and I would hate people.
And I would just
want to kill them.
And just going step by
step, it took me two years
to be the person I am today,
always smiling or laughing.
So that changed me, to know that
every person deserves to laugh,
and it's OK to laugh.
And I think just to
forgive, that I've
forgiven people who hurt
me when I was a kid,
and that changed, so.
I'm just very happy
right now with the kids.
And the memory is going to
be me laughing with them 24
hours every single day
at the most stupidest
jokes you can ever think of,
and we were just so stupid.
And when you talk about
it now, you just laugh.
>> It may look messy, but
I know where everything is.
My strategy is this.
If you unpack and
everything's around your bags,
it's much easier than having
to dig through your bags
constantly for all your stuff.
>> He's got a point.
>> It's going to be cool to
meet the people from the other
places and actually have
time to hang out with them.
I don't know how much Essen's
going to make us work.
>> I really want to
go to Dharamsala,
not just for the Dalai Lama,
but that place is going to be
incredible.
The Himalayas, the
air, that's going
to be incredibly beautiful.
>> You just fold shirts.
>> I really do need
to know how to--
>> Face down.
>> That's a good fold.
>> Here is an experience
that I will only get once
in a lifetime.
Especially to be in a
room with the Dalai Lama,
I'm very stoked.
>> Oh, my god.
>> We began to see, in
real life experience,
some of the answers
we'd been looking for.
What brings lasting
happiness shows up
as gratitude, forgiveness,
helping others, and community.
The proof was all around us.
The children we met
demonstrated that you
can be very happy when you
tap into your inner resources.
>> I, Yeshi Kando, on
behalf of TCV school,
welcome everybody to India
and particularly to TCV.
[SINGING]
Impossible as they seem, you've
got to fight for everything.
>> Imagine a world where we're
taught the practices that
develop happiness and
emotional intelligence just
as we're taught
algebra or writing.
It is possible, and it
can change the world.
[SINGING]
>> Emmanuel, Faith, and Mercy
had a couple of problems
leaving Nigeria, but we
finally caught up with them
in Dharamsala.
We've been working towards
this for the entire year,
and now we were meeting face
to face for the first time.
>> So today, we want to try a
little bit different process
than maybe you're used to, OK?
And try not to be shy.
--The others, and then
just make your groups.
>> People find me very
serious and not so talkative,
but my few friends, I'm
the very jokey type,
and I can go on
talking with them.
Actually, I am
more comfortable--
>> What is that you want to
know about America that you
don't know?
>> I've seen a lot of movies.
>> Well, movies don't really
show America, you know?
>> We were accepted with love.
They opened their hands,
their arms wide to accept us,
not segregating us from others.
It was like we are all
from the same place.
>> Nowadays we are trying
really hard to speak English
in our classes.
>> Well, you guys have
pretty much perfect English.
>> Thanks to our
teachers and all the--
>> So do you read
books in English or?
>> All our textbooks
are in English.
>> Wow, that must be hard.
>> Not so hard, I think.
>> I'm really not
a sports person.
I really don't like--
>> You know that there are
people who don't have houses
to stay?
They have no food.
They have no clothing to wear.
>> Adults think I'm kind
of shy, because I'm quiet.
But I'm really not shy at all.
>> Same with me.
>> --A lot.
And random things can
happen that make me bust
into song and start singing.
>> What I like to do is look
at different religions and pick
what I like from them.
So I like Jesus.
Like, if you read--
do you have a world
religions class or?
>> Just the word "religion,"
especially in America,
it's such a powerful word
that people don't really want
to talk about it, because
everybody in America tries
to be so politically correct.
>> I feel that happiness
is naturally originated
in one's mind.
>> Because, really, it's
the change inside ourselves
that's going to produce
the change in the world.
So if you're not changed
by this experience,
nothing has happened.
>> How many students
are at each school?
Like, how many students
are at your school?
>> This school?
About 1,060.
>> Wow.
So there's about
7,000 students in all?
>> [INAUDIBLE].
OK.
These are the rooms.
These are the rooms over here.
These ones [INAUDIBLE].
And he sleeps here.
>> Yes, this is my bed.
>> Hi.
>> Hi, I'm Georgey.
>> This one's my room.
My bed, not clean area.
This is dirty area.
>> Did you draw that?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Oh, wow.
>> Yes, we're going to go.
>> Nice to meet you.
>> Nice to meet you, too.
>> It's cool.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> We have actually
flying cows in the US.
So--
>> Yeah, they got big wings.
>> Fucking spiders.
>> They were so similar.
They were miles and
miles away, yet they
were so similar to who I was.
>> Empathy and true
connection to others are keys
to happiness.
And this can happen when
you least expect it.
>> You guys know freerunning?
You run, and you do flips,
and you jump off this.
>> Oh, no, no.
We don't have that.
>> We were just so happy.
And when we were
talking about sports
and we were playing with each
other, we were almost alike.
We were like exactly alike.
We were buds.
>> People do flips,
and they jump.
Very amazing.
>> It was like as if I had
traveled halfway around
the world to hang out with my
friends that I hang out with
here.
>> You know you hear those
stories about people hiking up
an insanely high hill to
meet this a yogi on the top,
and you only get one question,
and it's all about what
question you ask?
>> I went into the interview
with the Dalai Lama very
stressed out and very,
surprisingly, angry.
>> It's not like he's a huge
figure that I've grown up with
all my life.
I didn't know who he was
for a really long time.
>> He's going to see me.
He's going to know that
this is Yeshi Kando,
and she was a teacher in TCV.
And I would look
at him and think,
"I'm meeting my best friend who
does not even know I exist."
>> I want to be told
that it's OK to be happy.
>> The minute he
stepped into that door,
the minute I saw him walk
in, for some weird reason,
I just dropped all of it.
It was all gone.
>> The moment he entered,
I found myself actually
in another planet entirely.
>> I just melted.
I don't know what it was, but
the presence when he walked in.
>> The monk enters the room, who
happens to be the Dalai Lama.
>> Any questions, or any
argument, or any criticism,
most welcome.
>> Your Holiness, what
brings you lasting happiness?
>> Basically, we
are social animals.
Individuals, happy life,
or happy future life
depend on the rest
of the community.
So the element to bring, of
course, money also important,
and gifts also.
But the main thing is human warm
heartedness, human affection.
So the key element is trust.
Trust brings harmony.
Harmony brings happier society.
So not talking about
next life simply
in order to be a happier
person, a more meaningful life.
I feel these are
essential things.
On the other hand fighting,
quarreling, killing,
and to some extent, that's
also part of our life
in order to protect ourself.
But basically, these are
destroyer of our happy society,
happy individual.
Fighting, anger, hatred
creates more enemy.
Love, compassion
create more friend.
Everybody loves friends.
No one wants enemy.
I think each day start,
I think nobody thinking,
"Oh, today, I want to
create enemy, one enemy."
So know how to make
practical these ideas?
I don't know.
I have no idea.
[LAUGHTER]
I just express.
>> You know, I didn't expect
he was going to do that.
>> Oh, my god.
What's going on?
Shouldn't he know
what happiness is?
>> It was one of those points
when you just realize that
he's human.
>> That was his answer.
"I don't know."
>> How should we react
or respond to people who
deliberately hurt us or
deprive us from certain rights
and privileges because they feel
they are more powerful than us
or they think we're helpless?
>> Ah, this is a
practical question, hm?
When we face someone who
are taking advantage on you,
or bullying on you, or
discriminating on you,
try to take appropriate
countermeasure through law,
or through mobilize more people.
Or sometimes you have to shout.
So I think, unfortunately,
today's world
is a lot like that.
But better nonviolent way.
Then there is greater chance
to change other's mind.
Next?
>> Your Holiness, it is said
that you have to experience
sorrow to achieve happiness.
So it's also true that to
achieve the ultimate happiness,
we have to experience
the ultimate sorrow?
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Philosopher.
[LAUGHTER]
Yes, generally speaking, a
life spent a very easy way,
sometimes it is spoiled, basic
sort of human potential, hm?
Now, many years ago,
I met one Tibetan.
I asked him what he
feel toward the Chinese.
Before he give answer, his
face became red, and then--
this is what we
call "cheek red."
Cheeks look like that.
And then he said,
"Yes, I'm very angry."
On the other hand,
there were some Tibetans
that even though they
spent many years,
I think at least two
decades, around two decades,
in Chinese gulag, a lot of
problems, a lot of suffering,
a lot of torture, but
their mind, very calm.
Although both are in a
free country now in India,
but some still
mentally not very free.
Too much anger, too much hatred.
Those more happier,
more calm-minded Tibetan
ex-prisoners of the
Chinese, now, their mind,
I think, the more free from
these negative emotions,
destructive emotions.
So the result, these
people more happier.
I myself, I don't know.
[LAUGHTER]
In what category, I don't know.
Maybe middle.
I don't know.
[LAUGHTER]
So now important is your
spirit, your determination,
your self-confidence.
That's very important.
[LAUGHTER]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> This is the moment I've
really been waiting for.
Now I have gotten the power
to go back into the society
and do exactly what I want.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Good, thank you.
Thank you.
Bye-bye, bye-bye.
>> This was the end point of
our curriculum, basically.
Our question was, "what
brings you lasting happiness?"
We've asked that to everyone.
We've asked it to ourselves.
We've asked it to people
who haven't answered.
We've asked it to people who
have answered for like two
hours on the question.
We've asked it to people who
answer it in a split second.
This is the man
who we thought was
going to tell us what happiness
is, and here he doesn't know.
>> Oh, my god.
>> So we understand the basic
parameters of happiness,
that have to do with human
relationships, sacrifice,
and service to others.
Those are all in the field
of the support of happiness.
But for each of us
personally, it's
a moment to moment experience.
>> For me, it's not that
he didn't know for himself.
It's that he was
leaving it up to us.
>> Watching the Tibetan kids
getting blessed by His Holiness
and just the emotion and
the look on their face,
to be in that room was just
really touching for me,
and to see them being blessed
was really touching, too.
>> To hear about
your guys' life,
and hear that it's
not all that--
in some ways it's so
different, and in some ways,
we're really the exact same.
So that's pretty cool.
>> Meeting you guys and
seeing your culture,
I knew that from watching
you guys dance and sing,
how much you really embrace
it, I knew I'd be jealous.
And just seeing you
guys is so inspiring.
And you're not defined
by being Tibetan,
but you use it in
your life, and it
helps to form who
you are as people,
and it's really beautiful.
>> Me and a couple other guys
were accepted into the home
of these guys' dorms.
And I must say, being accepted
as family and friends,
and just joking around with
us in such a small group,
I just feel like this is
now a new home for me.
>> In every human being, there
is a powerful seed that is
planted.
And each of us has
to allow that seed
to germinate, to
grow and expand.
>> It wasn't really goodbye.
Happiness isn't
something you can finish.
We had to figure out what
everyone had learned,
and put it all together
to share with others.
In a way, the project
had just started.
>> I'm sure that
when we get back,
Faith is going to be different.
Mercy is going to be different.
I believe that they will
become like teachers
for those who were
not here, because they
have seen it themselves.
>> I will be a source
of advice to others.
>> Everything that I've
learned, all these connections,
everything that I've built is
going to help me create who I
am.
>> All this way, and what we
found was that no one can give
us the keys to
our own happiness.
We find them on our own,
and in our own time.
We each have a choice in how
we think about our lives.
We can choose to be happier.
And those choices ripple out
and affect the world around us.
Thoughts are that powerful.
>> I remember I got off the
plane and was looking around
for him, because I was thinking,
maybe this once he's going
to be one of those parents that
is just waiting there for me.
There was already a
lot of parents there,
who had obviously been
waiting for their kids.
I was worried that
my dad even knew
I was coming back that day.
I remember just
being really angry,
and I wanted to
hide from everyone
and not let them know that
he wasn't there, again.
I remember one of the
moms came and grabbed me
and she like, "Nina,
your dad's here."
>> It's OK, Mama.
It's OK.
What happened?
>> I just dropped
everything, and ran to him,
and grabbed him, and just
started crying in his arms,
because he was there.
That was just one
of the moments where
I didn't talk to my father, but
I felt that I said more to him
than I've ever dared to say
to him, about how I'm feeling.
>> It's about letting
go of the grief,
the grief that defined me.
When everybody
asked me who I was,
it was that grief
that I went to,
and then that I was moving on,
and that I wasn't feeling as
bad and not grieving as much.
I felt like I was losing myself,
and then I realized it was OK.
>> By the time I
came back to Nigeria,
I decided to resign my
appointment with the school I
was working, and then to start
Creative Minds International
Academy.
I am going through the
greatest moment of my life.
And I say it with every
strength in my heart,
because this thing has
really transformed me.
I know where I'm coming from.
I know my background.
So I know very well
what I'm talking about.
I felt this is an
opportunity for me
to do something different,
where young people
can have opportunity
to learn about values,
so that by the time they grow
up to take leadership positions
in the society, they
will shun corruption,
they will have respect
for fellow human beings,
and all their actions
will be guided by love
for fellow human beings.
>> I used to be
someone who is angry,
but we are the
coming generation.
We should try to make
peace among each other.
Even if the person's not
of the same tribe and maybe
from the same country, you can
love the person for who he is.
>> I now know that the best way
to be happy is to put the other
person first, so that when
I make that person happy,
it comes back to me.
It comes back full circle.
>> I am going to
change the world.
I want to be there
with Emmanuel standing
at the top of the world
saying, "Hey, man, that's
what we created.
Look at that."
>> I told you guys it would
be a blink of an eye, right?
Was I right?
It's a blink of an eye.
A wonderful thing.
I'm grateful for full
attendance today.
This is good.
>> I don't really know what
I was thinking when I decided
that I wanted to go here.
I know that none of this
would have been possible
if my father or the faculty
here at Mount Madonna
weren't as determined to
give me the opportunity
to stay in school.
I realize that I will always
have to sacrifice for others,
but now I also
know that there are
people who are willing
to do the same for me,
or have been all along.
Thank you to my dad,
who's been helping me.
My mom.
>> Someone told me that they
thought I was going to change
a lot in college.
Change is daunting.
I need to find what
I am to change to.
But I think life will change
me into what I need to be.
>> At home, kids would tease
me for going to a good school
and being Baba-ji's
favorite girl.
Thank you.
[LAUGHTER]
I hated my life.
Not a day went by
without me crying.
But when I came here, I
realized that I'm different,
because I've been abused.
I was abandoned and
beaten when I was a kid.
Now I look back and think
that maybe the abuse
was a gift within itself.
I am who I am because
of those experiences.
I've grown inside,
emotionally and mentally.
Before I was scared and
mad at being an orphan,
but now I get my
strength by being one.
I want to thank Baba-ji
for doing all he could
in his will to make me who I am.
I know I gave you a
lot of gray hairs.
[LAUGHTER]
But in the end, I
want to thank you.
Because if it wasn't
for you, I would
be begging on some
street, trying to survive.
And instead, I'm
here, able to enjoy
the profound
opportunities in my life.
Thank you.
>> We need to find it within
ourselves to be the heroes that
I know we are.
I may not get to fight
with a lightsaber,
though I do have one
signed by George Lucas,
but I can try to help change
the world and be a hero.
I say this with confidence.
These people up here with
me, that I love so dearly,
are heroes, leaders,
healers, and survivors,
which is what it takes
to change the world.
I will see you all again.
Godspeed, and may the
Force be with you, always.
[CHEERING]
>> During this brief time that
we are here, what can we do,
so that by the end of the
process, the life process,
we can say "Yeah, I did my best.
It was worth it"?
>> I feel very hopeful
about the future,
and about the potential that's
in each and every one of these
kids, and in each
and every one of us.
>> Anything that is
not shared diminishes.
It's just like love.
Love is meant to be shared.
>> All religions say
one thing, basically.
Which is, love is a
secret to the universe.
>> Compassion and a sense of
community, honesty, truthful,
these are key elements to
counter mental unhappiness.
>> I'm happy, because I'm
trying to be happy on my own,
you know?
It's me who has to
make myself happy.
>> The idea of change, I think,
is something that really is
critical and fundamental.
>> We can change.
We can change ourselves.
We can change our minds.
We can change our hearts.
And therefore the
universe changes.
>> It's OK that we are
always a work in progress,
and to get used to it.
>> So now what?
This is a movement.
And every person is important.
Join us and create more
happiness in your life
and for those around you.
[MUSIC - THE FLAMING
LIPS, "DO YOU REALIZE?"]
>> One, two, three, four.
Do you realize that you have
the most beautiful face?
Do you realize we're
floating in space?
Do you realize?
>> Wait a minute, you're
taping me right now?
That's nice.
>> That you have the
most beautiful face?
Do you realize we're
floating in space?
Do you realize that
happiness makes you cry?
Do you realize--
>> There's the camera again.
>> --That everyone you
know someday will die?
>> I'm Christian-- I'm Buddhist.
>> And instead of saying
all of your goodbyes,
let them know you realize
that life goes fast.
It's hard to make
the good things last.
>> That sounds a lot more
nerdy than I thought it would.
>> You realize the
sun doesn't go down.
It's just an illusion caused
by the world spinning round.
Do you realize, realize,
realize, realize, realize,
realize, realize that you
have the most beautiful face?
Do you realize?